
I will describe how I view combat-related exploration in this game.



In this game, areas are large, probably something like 10 square km, maybe more. Each Area is a grid 10x10 = 100 rooms. Meaning, if an Area has a length of 10km, than a room has a length of 10km/10 = 1km = 1000 meters

A room is the size of 50x50 points = 2500, so each point has a length of 1000/50 = 20 meters


Lets say I start at area = 0, room = 0 at (0,0)

I will get a prompt describing the current point

Also I will get a prompt describing objects in the current point

And regarding combat, depending on the biome(jungle vs plains and desert for example) I will get a prompt notifying me about the location of nearby monsters. I want to move from point to point but also keep the larger room in mind.
The player will be aware of what goes on in the room while they navigate between the points.

Something like:

"
Area: the whispering forest ----> Area prompt
Location: Forest entrance ------> Room prompt

You have entered the whispering forest, you get a strange feeling that this forest is more dangerous than it seems. -----> Point prompt
You spot 2 wolves at northeast at location (20,5) ------> Dynamic prompt because the wolves are near the player so they can see them
"








Furthermore, the wolves will be moving throughout the forest each N units of time. Each monster will have M tiles that if the player is in them, the wolves will be aware of them and if they are hostile, will either move towards the
player, or run away from them(wolves can be considered hostile, deers will run away)





Regarding populating the room with npcs, obejcts and monsters.
The Npcs and objects, quests and so on will be populated manually by me(maybe not all of them, but the vast majority)

However, the monsters will be populated using some probability. I will use what chat gpt wrote about the biome encounters and use that to populate the room. So for example, If Wolf needs a d20 roll of 1, and a Bear needs a d20 roll of 10
Then there should be somewhere about 10 times as many wolves as Bears.

However, their location and exact numbers will not be known to me. The amount will be determined when generating the room, and their location will change as time goes on.